---
layout: post
title: Cold Brew
categories: recipes
tags: [coffee, drink]
image: cold-brew.jpg
---

Who doesn't love a rich, flavorful glass of cold-brewed coffee? This recipe is as easy as it is delicious, and is my favorite kind: unattended. I love to prep this just after dinner so I have it ready to go by lunch the next day. This prepares about 6 cups of cold brew concentrate that lasts me upwards of a week of afternoon coffee drinks.

<!--more-->

## Equipment
- Large jar or pitcher
- Filtration: cheese cloth, sieve, or Chemex (my favorite!)

## Ingredients
- **6 oz** coarse-ground coffee
- **6 cups** water

## Directions
1. Combine the coffee and the water in your large jar or pitcher, and give it a quick stir to ensure all the grounds are wet. Don't worry that they're all floating at the top; that just happens.
2. Put it in the fridge for _12-18 hours_.
3. Once we're all steeped, filter the solids from the liquids. You can use a metal sieve, even add some cheesecloth to do it better. My favorite? Use a Chemex pourover setup to filter.
4. Once filtered, either pour back into your pitcher/jar (rinse it first!) or dispense into smaller jars.
5. To serve, dilute as much (or as little) as you like, with water or milk (or whiskey) and serve over ice.

## Notes
- The Chemex filtration is a little slow, and you'll probably need to do two batches, but the extra time is worth it, in my opinion. The Chemex filter ensures _no_ particles get down into the liquid, plus it captures a lot of the oils that come off the beans in the steeping process, which while I'm certain they're fine to consume, can make for an unsightly film at the top of your drink.
- My favorite delivery mechanism for this is to throw it in a cocktail shaker full of ice, approximately two parts concentrate to one part milk (I like oat milk here but any milk-like substance works), and a good tablespoon or two of [chocolate syrup]({% post_url 2020-04-02-chocolate-syrup %}). Give it a vigorous shake and pour out -- ice and all -- into a glass. Mmm!